1. What is Python and why is it popular?
Ans:-
Python is a high-level, interpreted programming language known for its simple syntax and readability. It is used in web development, data science, artificial intelligence, automation, game development, and more.
Easy to learn and use
Simple and readable syntax
Large collection of libraries and frameworks
Works on multiple platforms
Strong community support
Used in modern technologies like AI and Machine Learning

2. Who created Python and when was it first released?
Ans:-
Python was created by Guido van Rossum.
Development started in the late 1980s
First official release: 1991

3. What are the main features of Python?
Ans:-
Main features of Python include:
Simple and easy syntax
Interpreted language
Object-oriented programming support
Dynamically typed
Cross-platform compatibility
Large standard library
Open-source and free
Supports multiple programming styles
Automatic memory management

4. What is the difference between Python 2 and Python 3?
Ans:-
Python 2	                                                 Python 3
Older version	                                         Newer and improved version
print used without parentheses	                         print() uses parentheses
Unicode support limited	                                 Better Unicode support
Division of integers gives integer output	             Division gives float output
No longer supported officially	                         Fully supported and recommended

Example:

Python 2:

print "Hello"

Python 3:

print("Hello")

5. What is dynamic typing in Python?
Ans:-
In Python, you do not need to declare the data type of a variable explicitly. The type is decided automatically during execution.

Example:

x = 10       # integer
x = "Hello"  # string

This feature is called dynamic typing.

6. What is the difference between static typing and dynamic typing?
Ans:-
    Static Typing	                                   Dynamic Typing
Variable type declared before use	              Type decided automatically
Type checking happens before execution	          Type checking happens during execution
Less flexible	                                  More flexible
Example: C, Java	                              Example: Python

Example of static typing:

int x = 10;

Example of dynamic typing:

x = 10

7. Why is Python called a cross-platform language?
Ans:-
Python programs can run on different operating systems such as:

Windows
Linux
macOS

The same Python code usually works on all platforms with little or no changes. Therefore, Python is called a cross-platform language.

8. What is CPython?
Ans:-
CPython is the default and most widely used implementation of Python.

Written in the C programming language
Converts Python code into bytecode
Executes the bytecode using the Python Virtual Machine (PVM)

9. What is the role of the Python Virtual Machine (PVM)?
Ans:-
The Python Virtual Machine (PVM) is responsible for executing Python bytecode.

Working process:
Python source code (.py) is converted into bytecode
Bytecode is sent to the PVM
PVM executes the bytecode line by line

The PVM acts like an interpreter between Python code and the computer system.

10. What is the difference between machine code and bytecode?
Ans:-
  Machine Code	                                  Bytecode
Directly understood by CPU	                 Intermediate code understood by PVM
Platform dependent	                         Platform independent
Faster execution	                         Slightly slower
Generated after final compilation	         Generated before execution
Example Flow:
Python Code → Bytecode → PVM → Machine Code